az-content/lore/gods/azura.md, before:

---
title: Azura
aliases:
  - Azura
  - Queen of Dawn and Dusk
  - Mother Soul
  - Mother of the Rose
  - Queen of the Night Sky
  - Azurah
tags:
  - daedra
description: Azura is a Daedric Prince whose sphere is dawn and dusk - the magic in-between realms of twilight - as well as mystery and magic, fate and prophecy, and vanity and egotism.
---
## Spheres of Influence
Azura's spheres of influence include artistic expression, magic, fate, and prophecy, dusk and dawn, the magic in-between realms of twilight. [^1] [^2] [^3]

Azura's knowledge of the First Secret may influence her ability to affect racial appearances. [^4] She used this ability in the Khajiit creation myth and is attributed with cursing the [[chimer|Chimer]]'s appearance into becoming the Dunmer people.

Azura claimed to have used her powers over Dawn and Dusk to reincarnate Nerevar. [^5]

Azura is also described as "the Rim of all Holes". [^6] It is unclear if this is in reference to her ability to pass through the lunar lattice or something more obscure.
## Motivations (Main Storyline)
Queen of the Night Sky, Mother of the Rose, Lady of Dawn and Dusk; Azura is generous to her faithful, vengeful on her adversaries, jealous, and selfish. But then, which Daedra are not? Therefore, if something does not go according to plan, Azura will not become angry, she seldom does. Instead she will tactfully alter her plot to achieve her goals and hurt the ones who thwarted her plans. It is often difficult to tell the difference between Azura’s self-focused will, and the arbitrary good of it all. Although Lady Azura is a jealous lord, she strongly protects her faithful. Beauty is paramount to Azura. Reflect on her realm, its city of silver and her rose palace. Her love of beauty evolved into a desire for perfection. Azura may not expect total perfection of her mortal [[house-azura|House Azura]], but her Daedra are bound by other laws. Therefore her son, [[aesmandroth|Aesmandroth]], was held to a high standard. Thus his waywardness and individuality which sprouted from his mortality lead to his exile from [[moonshadow|Moonshadow]].

Azura’s reaction to Aesmandroth’s hostility is that she wishes him dead. He is in the way, he insults her, and he abducts her people. Consider the Tribunal: they betrayed Nerevar, one of Azura’s servants. She then cursed the [[chimer|Chimer]] and later used the Nerevarine to topple ALMSIVI. Notice how she never mentioned until the end that vanquishing the Heart would remove the Tribunal’s power, even if it was assumed. She operates in a hidden fashion, claiming that the Tribunal are false gods anyway. Azura is crafty; every rose has its thorn - and Azura is thorny indeed. But her immediate goal seems to be saving her people from her son’s wrath, and punishing him severely.

Azura has higher motivations which relate to a desire to bring about the Dusk of the mortal plane. But these do not directly come into play during the events of Lyithdonea. [^8]
## Personality
Azura doesn’t like Vampires. [^7]

Azura has two forms. Her first form is the calm, serene one in which she appears to the Nerevarine: Blue evening gown, pinned up hair, Dunmer woman.

Her second form is her war-form, an embodiment of the untamed energies of the Dawn; for more information on her appearance in this form, read “[[azura-the-angel|Azura the Angel]].” Suffice to say she appears as a bare-breasted, golden skinned woman, with dark, flowing hair, claws of unimaginable strength, and twilit wings arced behind her.

> [!Quote] [[mark-nelsons-posts#On Daedra as Good or Evil|Mark Nelson's Posts]]
> ![[mark-nelsons-posts#On Daedra as Good or Evil|clean]]

The player encounters her in this form only towards the end of the Lyithdonea main quest when Aesmandroth attacks Azura City. In this form, her aspect is much more ferocious and compulsive. Her speech is baser, similar to how she spoke during [[the-trial-of-vivec#^3ce943|The Trial of Vivec]].

[^1]: [[feyfolken#^8fdf8a|Feyfolken II]]
[^2]: [[the-lost-prophecy#^813b04|The Lost Prophecy]]
[^3]: [[the-book-of-daedra#^eee1f9|The Book of Daedra]]
[^4]: [[words-of-clan-mother-ahnissi#^847d55|Words of Clan Mother Ahnissi]]
[^5]: [[nerevar-at-red-mountain#^d48870|Nerevar at Red Mountain]]
[^6]: [[pocket-guide-to-the-empire-1st-edition#^6db16e|Pocket Guide to the Empire, 1st Edition]]
[^7]: Azura's Quest in TES4.
[^8]: [[azuras-explanation|Azura's Explanation]]

Commit message:

Removed metaphysics. Updated Moonshadow
Merged Towers into other notes
Revised Moonshadow to be more concise and have proper references

az-content/lore/gods/azura.md, after:

---
title: Azura
aliases:
  - Azura
  - Queen of Dawn and Dusk
  - Mother Soul
  - Mother of the Rose
  - Queen of the Night Sky
  - Azurah
tags:
  - daedra
  - graph-exclude
description: Azura is a Daedric Prince whose sphere is dawn and dusk - the magic in-between realms of twilight - as well as mystery and magic, fate and prophecy, and vanity and egotism.
---
> [!maintenance] Headcanon
> ![[god-azura.png|left wtiny]]
> 
> > [!maintenance|clean nbrd]
> > 
> > **"You have come here for a reason, though you may not know what it is."**
> > 
> > This article or section contains 'musings' - developmental notes, not yet codified.
## Spheres of Influence
Azura's spheres of influence include artistic expression, magic, fate, and prophecy, dusk and dawn, the magic in-between realms of twilight. [^1] [^2] [^3]

Azura's knowledge of the First Secret may influence her ability to affect racial appearances. [^4] She used this ability in the Khajiit creation myth and is attributed with cursing the [[chimer|Chimer]]'s appearance into becoming the Dunmer people.

Azura claimed to have used her powers over Dawn and Dusk to reincarnate Nerevar. [^5]

Azura is also described as "the Rim of all Holes". [^6] It is unclear if this is in reference to her ability to pass through the lunar lattice or something more obscure.

> [!Musings]
> Azura can bypass the lattice, because she is the break in the lattice - the rim of all holes.
## Motivations (Main Storyline)
Queen of the Night Sky, Mother of the Rose, Lady of Dawn and Dusk; Azura is generous to her faithful, vengeful on her adversaries, jealous, and selfish. But then, which Daedra are not? Therefore, if something does not go according to plan, Azura will not become angry, she seldom does. Instead she will tactfully alter her plot to achieve her goals and hurt the ones who thwarted her plans. It is often difficult to tell the difference between Azura’s self-focused will, and the arbitrary good of it all. Although Lady Azura is a jealous lord, she strongly protects her faithful. Beauty is paramount to Azura. Reflect on her realm, its city of silver and her rose palace. Her love of beauty evolved into a desire for perfection. Azura may not expect total perfection of her mortal [[house-azura|House Azura]], but her Daedra are bound by other laws. Therefore her son, [[aesmandroth|Aesmandroth]], was held to a high standard. Thus his waywardness and individuality which sprouted from his mortality lead to his exile from [[moonshadow|Moonshadow]].

Azura’s reaction to Aesmandroth’s hostility is that she wishes him dead. He is in the way, he insults her, and he abducts her people. Consider the Tribunal: they betrayed Nerevar, one of Azura’s servants. She then cursed the [[chimer|Chimer]] and later used the Nerevarine to topple ALMSIVI. Notice how she never mentioned until the end that vanquishing the Heart would remove the Tribunal’s power, even if it was assumed. She operates in a hidden fashion, claiming that the Tribunal are false gods anyway. Azura is crafty; every rose has its thorn - and Azura is thorny indeed. But her immediate goal seems to be saving her people from her son’s wrath, and punishing him severely.

Azura has higher motivations which relate to a desire to bring about the Dusk of the mortal plane. But these do not directly come into play during the events of Lyithdonea. [^8]
## Personality
Azura doesn’t like Vampires. [^7]

Azura has two forms. Her first form is the calm, serene one in which she appears to the Nerevarine: Blue evening gown, pinned up hair, Dunmer woman.

Her second form is her war-form, an embodiment of the untamed energies of the Dawn; for more information on her appearance in this form, read “[[azura-the-angel|Azura the Angel]].” Suffice to say she appears as a bare-breasted, golden skinned woman, with dark, flowing hair, claws of unimaginable strength, and twilit wings arced behind her.

> [!Quote] [[mark-nelsons-posts#On Daedra as Good or Evil|Mark Nelson's Posts]]
> ![[mark-nelsons-posts#On Daedra as Good or Evil|clean]]

The player encounters her in this form only towards the end of the Lyithdonea main quest when Aesmandroth attacks Azura City. In this form, her aspect is much more ferocious and compulsive. Her speech is baser, similar to how she spoke during [[the-trial-of-vivec#^3ce943|The Trial of Vivec]].

[^1]: [[feyfolken#^8fdf8a|Feyfolken II]]
[^2]: [[the-lost-prophecy#^813b04|The Lost Prophecy]]
[^3]: [[the-book-of-daedra#^eee1f9|The Book of Daedra]]
[^4]: [[words-of-clan-mother-ahnissi#^847d55|Words of Clan Mother Ahnissi]]
[^5]: [[nerevar-at-red-mountain#^d48870|Nerevar at Red Mountain]]
[^6]: [[pocket-guide-to-the-empire-1st-edition#^6db16e|Pocket Guide to the Empire, 1st Edition]]
[^7]: Azura's Quest in TES4.
[^8]: [[azuras-explanation|Azura's Explanation]]
