az-content/lore/metaphysics/towers.md, before:

---
title: Towers
aliases:
  - Towers
tags:
  - metaphysics
description: The Towers are ancient structures on Nirn which date back to as early as the end of the Dawn Era. They are immensely powerful, and are responsible for the stabilization of Mundus as well as a wide array of other fantastical functions.
---
## [UESP](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:The_Towers)
The Towers are ancient structures on Nirn which date back to as early as the end of the Dawn Era. They are immensely powerful, and are responsible for the stabilization of Mundus as well as a wide array of other fantastical functions.
## AZ
> On the Towers: They are magical and physical echoes of the Ur-Tower, Ada-mantia. Ada-mantia was the first spike of unassailable reality in the Dawn, otherwise called the Zero Stone. The powers at Ada-mantia were able to determine through this Stone the spread of creation and their parts in it. The powers also created Red Tower and the First Stone. This allowed the Mundus to exist without the full presence of the divine. In this way, the powers of Ada-mantia granted the Mundus a special kind of divinity, which is called NIRN, the consequence of variable fate.

Where did the Heart of Lorkhan go when the Nerevarine struck and it disappeared?

> The Stones are magical and physical echoes of the Zero Stone, by which a Tower might focus its energy to mold creation. Oftentimes, the Stones borrowed surplus creation from Oblivion, grafting it to the terrestrial domain of its anointed Tower.

Could Red Tower possess this ability to mold creation, using Oblivion? Is it lost now with the Heart, the First Stone?

> Cultivating creatia that washed into the Void from Aetherius became the rule among Stones. 

[[creatia|Creatia]] seems to be the material used to form the Mundex Arena.

> The Daedric Realms were formed on much the same principle: padomaic powers using aetherial refuse to build their void-territories. The Towers built on the Mundus, since the lands around them congealed in the absence of the gods, were unable to match the capriciousness of the Lords of Misrule.

It would seem that the Daedric Princes were only able to form their realms by using left over creatia. Note that the daedra are referred to as padomaic powers.

> The Ayleids harvested castaway creatia from Oblivion by entering a pact with the masters of the Void, the Princes of Misrule.

[[azura|Azura]] might also have access to this creatia. Maybe that is what she used to create the realm of Lyithdonea.

> Every dawnmaker Tower takes a myth-form. Red Tower is a volcano and its surrounds. The Aldmeri polydoxes were cosminachs, and the White-Gold project was and is no different.

The polydox is the Tower complex, while cosminach is interestingly similar to the Atronach making it seem almost that the Towers were almost sentient or divine perhaps.

Commit message:

Testing out musings on Roses and Towers pages

az-content/lore/metaphysics/towers.md, after:

---
title: Towers
aliases:
  - Towers
tags:
  - metaphysics
description: The Towers are ancient structures on Nirn which date back to as early as the end of the Dawn Era. They are immensely powerful, and are responsible for the stabilization of Mundus as well as a wide array of other fantastical functions.
---

> [!maintenance] Headcanon
> ![[npc-baladas-demnevanni.png|left wtiny]]
> 
> > [!maintenance|clean nbrd]
> > 
> > **"It is said that the Dwemer refused to discuss research with those who demonstrated neither interest nor competence in the subject."**
> > 
> > This article or section contains 'musings' - developmental notes, not yet codified.

^0fe9e4
## [UESP](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:The_Towers)
The Towers are ancient structures on Nirn which date back to as early as the end of the Dawn Era. They are immensely powerful, and are responsible for the stabilization of Mundus as well as a wide array of other fantastical functions.
## AZ

> [!Quote]
> The Stones are magical and physical echoes of the Zero Stone, by which a Tower might focus its energy to mold creation. Oftentimes, the Stones borrowed surplus creation from Oblivion, grafting it to the terrestrial domain of its anointed Tower.
> 
> It was and is difficult to bypass Oblivion to go directly to creation’s source, the Aetherius. It has been done, but not without great expenditure, mundane and otherwise. However, access to Oblivion, the Void that surrounds Mundex Arena, which we might touch every night, was child’s play in comparison.
> 
> Cultivating creatia that washed into the Void from Aetherius became the rule among Stones.
> 
> The Daedric Realms were formed on much the same principle: padomaic powers using aetherial refuse to build their void-territories. The Towers built on the Mundus, since the lands around them congealed in the absence of the gods, were unable to match the capriciousness of the Lords of Misrule.
> \- [Nu-Mantia Intercept, Letter #7](https://www.imperial-library.info/content/nu-mantia-intercept)

> [!Musings]
> [[creatia|Creatia]] seems to be the material used to form the Mundex Arena.
> 
> It would seem that the Daedric Princes were only able to form their realms by using left over creatia. Note that the daedra are referred to as padomaic powers.

> [!Quote]
> White-Gold Tower was made by the Ayleids, the Heartland High Elves that would have none to do with their isle-kind. Where the Altmer sought to focus on dracochrysalis, or keeping elder magic bound before it could change into something lesser (and act which ironically required aetherial surplus), the Ayleids harvested castaway creatia from Oblivion by entering a pact with the masters of the Void, the Princes of Misrule.
> \- [Nu-Mantia Intercept, Letter #8](https://www.imperial-library.info/content/nu-mantia-intercept)

> [!Musings]
> [[azura|Azura]] might also have access to this creatia. Maybe that is what she used to create the realm of Lyithdonea.
