### [UESP](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Azura)

### AZ
Queen of the Night Sky, Mother of the Rose, Lady of Dawn and Dusk; Azura is generous to her faithful, vengeful on her adversaries, jealous, and selfish. But then, which Daedra are not? Therefore, if something does not go according to plan, Azura will not become angry, she seldom does. Instead she will tactfully alter her plot to achieve her goals and hurt the ones who thwarted her plans. It is often difficult to tell the difference between Azura’s self-focused will, and the arbitrary good of it all. Although Lady Azura is a jealous lord, she strongly protects her faithful. Beauty is paramount to Azura. Reflect on her realm, its city of silver and her rose palace. Her love of beauty evolved into a desire for perfection. Azura may not expect total perfection of her mortal House, but her Daedra are bound by other laws. Therefore her son, Aesmandroth, was held to a high standard. Thus his waywardness and individuality which sprouted from his mortality lead to his exile from Moonshadow.

Azura’s reaction to [[Aesmandroth]]’s hostility is that she wishes him dead. He is in the way, he insults her, and he abducts her people. Consider the Tribunal: they betrayed Nerevar, one of Azura’s servants. She then cursed the Chimer and later used the Nerevarine to topple ALMSIVI. Notice how she never mentioned until the end that vanquishing the Heart would remove the Tribunal’s power, even if it was assumed. She operates in a hidden fashion, claiming that the Tribunal are false gods anyway. Azura is crafty; every rose has its thorn - and Azura is thorny indeed. But her immediate goal seems to be saving her people from her son’s wrath, and punishing him severely.